I had this idea of making a retor deckbuiulder fps shooter game. basically you run around completing an objective, searching for relics, and collecting cards that you can equip or use as power ups. In the pause menu (which doesnt actually pause the game) there are four main sections, the deck, the hand, the equipement slots, and the discard zone. Your deck starts out empty when you start the game, and you must collect cards in the game to fill your deck. When you have cards in your deck, you cannot yet draw those cards as you need "pickup tickets" (which are relatively easy to find). You can either use a ticket to draw a card from your deck into your hand, or ue multiuiple tickets to buy cards from the shops (which goes into your deck). Your hand can only have a mximum amount of cards (which can be upgraded) and if you have reached the limit, you cannot draw any cards. 

Once these cards are in your hand, you can move them to either your weapon slot, accesory lot, discard zone or play zone. When a card is in the weapon slot, it uses the weapon attribute of the card, if it is in the accesory slot, it uses the accesory stats of the card. You can also delete a card, which permanently removes it from your hand/deck/equip slot. And you can play a card, which uses the play stats of the card. Each card has individual weappon, accesory and play stats of the card. Cards also have hand holding stats which are only active if that card is in your hand. [so four different stats for holding it in your hand, playing it (usually permanent), equiping it as a weapon, and equiping it as an accessory]

